Extend the supported asset file types to include commonly used formats svg and webp (#648)
emberjs/rfcs: text/0000-extend-supported-asset-file-types-svg-webp.md

- Start Date: 2020-07-15
- Relevant Team(s): Ember CLI
- RFC PR: (after opening the RFC PR, update this with a link to it and update the file name)
- Tracking: (leave this empty)

> # Extend the supported asset file types to include svg and webp (& possibly other)

Reviewer: Let's move "possibly others" into unresolved questions.
```suggestion
# Extend the supported asset file types to include svg and webp
```

## Summary

Support commonly used image formats svg and webp out of the box.

## Motivation

> A default ember app should support commonly used image formats without requiring advanced changes to the config.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A default Ember app should support commonly used image formats without requiring advanced changes to the config.
```

## Detailed design

> Ember uses [broccoli-asset-rev](https://github.com/rickharrison/broccoli-asset-rev) to generate the appropriate urls within the ember application. The default configuration includes the following file types: `['js', 'css', 'png', 'jpg', 'gif', 'map']`. These days `svg` images are regularly used for vector graphics and `webp` is used in order to save bandwith (where supported). However, if these files are added to a new ember application, they are treated differently than the ones listed above. Fingerprinting is not enabled and related configurations like `prepend` are ignored. This can lead to anything from images not being displayed up to difficult to find issues like images being loaded from the wrong server, or broken cache invalidation.

Reviewer: While each sentence is clear, I think breaking the long paragraph into a few will help. What do you think about:

``````suggestion
Ember uses [broccoli-asset-rev](https://github.com/rickharrison/broccoli-asset-rev) to generate the appropriate urls within the Ember application. Ember's default value for `extensions` is currently the same as `broccoli-asset-rev`'s:

```javascript
// Current default extensions
['js', 'css', 'png', 'jpg', 'gif', 'map']
```

These days, `svg` images are regularly used for vector graphics and `webp` is used in order to save bandwidth (where supported). If `svg` and `webp` files are added to a new Ember application, they are treated differently than files with extensions listed above. Fingerprinting is not enabled and related configurations like `prepend` are ignored.

This can lead to:

- Images not being displayed
- Images being loaded from the wrong server
- Broken cache invalidation
``````

This RFC proposes to add `svg` and `webp` to the default file types handled by broccoli-asset-rev.

## How we teach this

Not necesary. Better image support - less things to teach.

## Drawbacks

> Some users might have been unaware of the possibility to configure these file types to behave correctly and might have implemented other things based on that beheaviour. There might be a possibility for these things to break when the defaults are changed. To avoid this, a deprecation warning could be implemented before changing the defaults. However, it is unclear if and how many existing users would even be affected by such a change.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some users might have been unaware of the possibility to configure file extensions and might have implemented other things based on that behavior. There might be a possibility for these things to break when the defaults are changed.

To avoid this, a deprecation warning could be implemented before changing the defaults. It is unclear if and how many existing users would even be affected by such a change.
```

## Alternatives

> Add more documentation. The cli documentation currently lists this option, but it is listed under `advanced-use`. As using a svg image is pretty much a trivial thing, this should be reflected accordingly within the docs.

Reviewer: In addition to adding the link to CLI Guides, I think I'd update the last sentence to avoid words like "pretty much" and "trivial", which can sound diminutive and less persuasive.

I understood the last sentence to mean, it may be common for a developer to add an svg image. Therefore, we could make it easier for the developer to find how to configure extensions in the Guides.

If this is what you intended with the sentence, maybe we can update it to reflect this?

```suggestion
Add more documentation. The [CLI documentation](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/advanced-use/asset-compilation/#fingerprintingandcdnurls) currently lists this option, but it is listed under `advanced-use`. As using a svg image is pretty much a trivial thing, this should be reflected accordingly within the docs.
```

## How we teach this

Not necesary. Better image support - less things to teach.

## Drawbacks

Some users might have been unaware of the possibility to configure file extensions and might have implemented other things based on that behavior. There might be a possibility for these things to break when the defaults are changed.

To avoid this, a deprecation warning could be implemented before changing the defaults and/or ember-cli-update could add the current formats to the config when upgrading, so behaviour will not change within an ember cli upgrade. However, it is unclear if and how many existing users would even be affected by such a change. It seems somewhat unlikely that this will actually be an issue, but it seems reasonable to think about any possible side effects.

## Alternatives

Add more documentation. The [CLI documentation](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/advanced-use/asset-compilation/#fingerprintingandcdnurls) currently lists this option, but it is listed under `advanced-use`. As using a svg image is pretty much a trivial thing, this should be reflected accordingly within the docs.

## Unresolved questions

Do we need some sort of deprecation warning?

> Are there other common file formats within web apps these days, that should be added as well?

Reviewer 2: I have no idea if it is common, but I have `webmanifest` in our config as well.

Author: for PWAs this should be common. However [mdn](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/Manifest) specifies it as `manifest.webmanifest`, but browser generally accept `manifest.json` as well.
